/*

BASIC RECURSION THEORY (JAVA DSA)

1. What is Recursion?

  .A function calling itself.
  .Used to solve large problems by dividing them into smaller subproblems.

2. Two Main Parts

a) Base Case – The stopping condition where recursion ends.
b) Recursive Step – The function calls itself with a smaller or reduced input.

3. Why Recursion?

  .Useful in Tree, Graph, Backtracking, and Divide & Conquer algorithms.
  .Makes code simpler and more readable for self-similar problems.

4. How Recursion Works (Call Stack)

  .Each recursive call is pushed onto the call stack.
  .When the base case is reached, the stack starts unwinding and returns values back.

5. Example Logic (Conceptual)
print(n):
    //if n == 0 → stop
    //print n;
    //call print(n - 1);

6. Important Uses

  .Factorial
  .Fibonacci
  .Tree Traversal
  .Depth-First Search (DFS)
  .Permutations and Combinations
  .Backtracking problems

7. Complexity Note

  .Space Complexity = Depth of recursion
  .Time Complexity = Number of recursive calls

8. Types of Recursion

  .Head Recursion – Work is done after the recursive call.
  .Tail Recursion – Work is done before the recursive call.
  .Tree Recursion – Function calls itself multiple times (e.g., Fibonacci).
  .Indirect Recursion – Function A calls B, and B calls A.

9. When NOT to Use Recursion

  .When recursion depth is too large (stack overflow risk).
  .When the problem can be solved easily using loops.
  .When the constraints are large and recursion becomes slow.

10. Common Mistakes in Recursion

  .Missing base case.
  .Wrong recursive step.
  .Passing the same input repeatedly (infinite recursion).
  .Multiple recursive calls without optimization.

11. Tail Recursion Note

  .Java does not support tail-call optimization.
  .Even tail-recursive functions can cause stack overflow for large inputs.

12. Recurrence Relation (DSA Concept)

Examples:
  .T(n) = T(n - 1) + O(1)
  .T(n) = 2T(n/2) + O(1)

  .Used in:
    .Merge Sort
    .Binary Search
    .Fibonacci
    .Divide & Conquer algorithms

13. Recursion Intuition (Easy to Remember)

  .Recursion is like:
  .A box inside another box.
  .A mirror inside a mirror.
  .Climbing or descending stairs one step at a time.


*/
